h1. Blog

h2. About

A simple RESTful rails blogging application using common plugins, heavily tested with Rspec.  The project has been built in stages and tagged at each.  Attempts have been made to achieve 100% code coverage through Rspec. The blog follows normal blogging conventions and sticks to the basics.  The project is intended to form the starting point for any Rails application requiring blogging.

For more, read the latest commit logs and revision information below.


h2. Caveats

* all front-end code is to be considered as placeholder until this message is removed (will be smartened up later)


h2. Revisions


h3. "0.0.2":http://github.com/hiddenloop/blog/tree/0.0.2

* multiple blogs, blog model, has many posts
* page caching on all public pages (with sweeping)
* user has and belongs to many blogs
* unique perma-links for posts (with date based URL)
* public tags controller with restful routes
* "hAtom":http://microformats.org/wiki/hatom, "hCard":http://microformats.org/wiki/hcard, "rel-tag":http://microformats.org/wiki/rel-tag microformats in public views ("about":http://microformats.org/)
* spam protection for comments (basic question/answer)
* time ago in words rendering (via javascript)
* auto-complete tag input (with taggable posts)
  * plugin patched to scope taggings to blogs
  * cloud html reworked to include this scope
* uploads (using Paperclip), shopify like UI for this
  * patches to plugin to generate preview images for PDFs
* config/config.yml as a placeholder for application wide settings
* general code improvements
  * code refactor, basic pass now using "flay":http://ruby.sadi.st/Flay.html (gem) for duplication checking
  * ruby code convention employed ("Ruby and Rails style guide":http://www.pathf.com/blogs/ruby-and-rails-style-guide/)
  * 100% code coverage with rspec (updated to 1.1.11 since last rev)
  * javascript test plugin added (rake test:javascripts)
  * more specific routing with :only and :except
  * removal of default js libs, coming from google now
  * more named scopes
  

h3. "0.0.1":http://github.com/hiddenloop/blog/tree/0.0.1

* public and admin namespaces
* posts have many comments
* users have many posts
* administration for tagging
* paperclip used only for user photo upload
* public register and login available for back-end (with logout)
* date specific urls for posts (posts/year/month/day) (currently not user scope-able)
* basic ATOM feeds for posts and comments (can be scoped by user)
* 100% code coverage with rspec


h2. Plugins Used (and vendored)

* "Paperclip":http://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip/tree/master - thoughtbot
* "Restful Authentication":http://github.com/technoweenie/restful-authentication/tree/master - technoweenie
* "Acts as Taggable Redux":http://github.com/monki/acts_as_taggable_redux/tree/master - monki
* "Will Paginate":http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/tree/master - mislav
* "Rspec":http://rspec.info - dchelimsky
* "Rspec Rails":http://github.com/dchelimsky/rspec-rails/tree/master - dchelimsky
* "Javascript Test":http://github.com/rails/javascript_test/tree/master - madrobby
* "Auto Complete":http://github.com/rails/auto_complete/tree/master - dhh


h2. Requirements

* "Rails":http://rubyonrails.org/ 2.2.2
* "Rspec":http://rspec.info 1.1.11
* "Ruby":http://www.ruby-lang.org/ >= 1.8.7
* gems
  * "RedCloth":http://redcloth.org/ (gem) >= 4.1.1


h2. And finally, real world examples

Examples where this application is used will eventually be listed below